Here are some different types of web developers, each of which focuses on a different aspect of the creation of a website.

Three main types of developers are 

FRONTEND  DEVELOPER,

BACKEND DEVELOPER, and

FULLSTACK DEVELOPER.



FRONTEND  DEVELOPER:

A front-end developer is someone who takes a client or design team’s website design and writes the code needed to implement it on the web. 

A decent front-end web developer will be fluent in at least three programming languages – HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.


HTML allows them to add content to a website while splitting it into headings, paragraphs, and tables.

CSS lets a decent developer style the content and change things like colors, sizes, and borders.

JavaScript allows the inclusion of interactive elements, such as push buttons. We will go into more detail about these languages later.


BACKEND DEVELOPER:

Back-end developers have to deal with the server-side.

This means that they have to create the code and programs which power the website’s server, databases, and any applications that it contains.

The most important thing as a back-end developer is the ability to be able to create a clean, efficient code that does what you want it to in the quickest way possible.


Back-end developers use a wide range of different server-side languages to build complicated programs.

Some of the most popular languages used include PHP, Python, Java, and Ruby. 

JavaScript is also becoming increasingly widespread as a back-end development language, while SQL is commonly used to manage and analyze data in website databases.



FULLSTACK DEVELOPER:

Full-stack developers understand both front and back-end strategies and processes.

which means that they are perfectly positioned to oversee the entire process.


A full-stack developer will often be employed to build the entire website.

In this case, it is extremely important for them to have a complete, in-depth understanding of both front and back-end development and how they work.

You will end up with the knowledge to be able to create an entire website on your own.

As a full-stack developer, you will understand the connections between the front and back-ends of a website, allowing you do build efficient and effective programs for all parts of the website.


